From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologist Scott Hanselman and hosted
by Carl Franklin. This is Lawrence Ryan
announcing show number seven recorded
Monday, February 20th, 2006. Support for handsome,
and it's just provided by
automated QA makers of test
complete providing automatic testing of
windows.net framework, Java and web
applications online@wwwdotautomatedqa.com. And by Peter
bloom.com start with better controls
finish with better sites online@peterblum.com.
Support is also provided by
Dutton and developers journal. The
world's leading dotnet developer magazine
online at www dot
dot com. In this episode,
Scott covers tools and technologies
around XML. Hi, this is
Carl Franklin. You're listening to Hansel
minutes and Scott, before we
get going, we want to
give a shout out to
our friends over at the
polymorphic podcast, polymorphic podcasts.com who
are just celebrating their one
year anniversary. Yeah, I really
admire the stuff that Craig's
been doing over there at
a polymorphic podcast. We even
stole one of his JavaScript
rollovers recently, put it up
on Hansel minutes and we're
trying to get that tweaked.
Craig's put together a really
solid show for quite a
while now, and we really
appreciate his support of Hansel
minutes and we wanted to
give him a shout out.
So the topic today is
XML. It's a kind of
a big topic. You've sort
of narrowed it down into
a few, a few, a
choice subtopics. What are those
going to be? XML is
a big topic. And for
a lot of people, they
really are just angle bracket,
delimited files, even in large
companies, you'll find people parsing
XML in ways that maybe
aren't as effective as, as
they could be. And at,
at my company, we often
deal with really large XML
files. We'll deal with a
file that might be dropped
in with a list of
bills that need to be
paid. That might be a,
you know, a half gigabyte
or a gigabyte in size
with, you know, tens or
hundreds of thousands of records.
And there are many different
ways to deal with XML.
And ever since ms. XML
was introduced around the VB
five, he'd be six days.
There was a class of
solution that I called the
select single node solution that
people are still using today,
right? This is load XML
up and Adom, right? And
say select nodes or select
single node and poke out
that value that you want.
I mean, we've all done
that. I'm sure you've done
that. Sure. When you load
XML up into a Dom,
you're using up a lot
of memory, you're having to
do a big, complete thorough
parsing of that XML document.
And often people are loading
stuff into a Dom either
just to extract one little
bit of information or more
often to translate that document
into a different format, right?
So maybe if I have
a 10 megabyte XML document,
it might get loaded up
and take 30 megs of,
of memory. And that can
be a real problem. One
of the things that I
like to avoid is what
I call Caterpillar style, XML
management. So this is when,
if you imagine a Caterpillar,
when the, the back legs
of the Caterpillar start walking
up towards the front and
the back of the Caterpillar
gets really, really tall. It's
like loading up all this
stuff and the XML document,
and it gets big, big,
big, big, big, and then
it sits there for a
second. And then you hold
this thing in memory for
a moment. And then you
use are walking away and
then you pull your information
out of the XML document
and for a really effective
XML transformation, or whether that,
and I don't mean XSLT,
but I mean, literally transformation
of XML to another, another
format using anything you want
to avoid that kind of
Caterpillar style development, where you
load something up, hold it
for a second and then
spit it back out again.
And using XML readers next
to my writers can help
you do that. All right.
So XML reader and XML
writer are classes in the
framework that, that work in
this space. What, how do
you use these things? They,
they, they sound like streams
to me. Are they streams?
They sit on, they can
sit on top of streams.
Exactly. So streams are, are
like byte arrays. Yeah. This
is an interesting thing that
you brought up. The concept
of streams is something that
that.net is introduced to make
the idea of buying a
raise and a raise the
information a lot, a lot
simpler. I was working with
some guys at, at Kirlian
recently doing some pair programming.
And I realized that amongst
dotnet programmers, in my opinion,
particularly in my case C
sharp programmers, there are two
types of folks. There are
the folks that lean hard
on the language, and there
are the folks that lean
hard on the library. And
I was doing compare programming
with a fellow who was
a expert C plus plus
programmer. And he was doing
some manipulation of, of some
byte array data in its
raw form and was writing
C sharp as if it
were C plus plus, because
you can, you can write
any, you know, you can
write C plus plus in
any language, you could be
a very C plus plus
EVB programmer. Right? Right. We
come upon vb.net code that's
been written, and you can
just look at it. And
the variable names you say,
there's been a C plus
plus person in this code.
I can smell it. S
the Z, exactly. LPSC STR.
So this individual leaned on
the language very hard while
I lean on the base
class library, but have less
deep knowledge about the right
things to do as far
as keywords within the language.
So between us, we were
very well well-placed. He was
poking around inside of a
byte array. When in fact,
a stream reader kind of
a forward only view of
a byte array within the.net
base class library would have
been the more appropriate thing
to do for him to
manipulate this data the way
that want it to right.
I learned something, he learned
something, but it really underscored
the fact that the base
class library has been thought
about at such a depth
that it's so much more
about the libraries. And it
is about the language for
a lot of different problems.
It's been a standard theme
on dotnet rocks. It's about,
you know, reinventing the wheel
when you really should have
cracked, cracked the help file.
Well, it's so difficult though,
because the base class library
is so complicated. And I
think that system dot XML
is one of those places
where you could just live
there. It's, there's so much
going on. So an XML
reader, like the XML text
reader and validating reader are
forward only views on some
XML while the Dom loads
that XML up and holds
it in memory a lot,
like back in the day
and VB five and VB
six, we had forward only
record sets and static record
sets. Right? So you know
more about that than anybody.
Yeah, Sure. A static being
a that, that never changes
underneath, whereas they also had
dynamic key sets, which would
change the data would change
on you. Exactly. And when,
when beginner developers started using
visual basic, they always went
for the static stuff. Cause
that seemed to be the
most logical way to do
things. And one of the
tips that was constantly passed
around was only use of
forward. Only if you don't
need to go back and
forth over the data, spin
through at once, use the
use the forward only stuff.
The XML text reader is,
is one of those examples
where if you're going to
be running through an XML
document and you really don't
want to load it up
into memory, if you're gonna
be doing something a lot,
if you're gonna have a
very fast XML access to
data, and you want the
memory footprint to be very
flat, you don't want that
entire document to get loaded
up into memory. The text
reader is the most efficient
way to do things it's
forward only. And it's read
only. So It does some
memory management where it loads
data up in chunks and
in cursors through it. Is
that how, how it works?
Yeah. It's actually loading it
as it goes. It's walking
through that stream, whatever you
pass it, as it goes.
And it never actually loads
the entire document. It's just
looking a few kind of
few nodes ahead. Okay. And
as, and if you've heard
of sax S XXX, the
sack style parsing is a
kind of push style parsing
where you start parsing XML
and the sax engine starts
to announce, Hey, I found
an element, Hey, I found
an attribute, Hey, I found
an end element. It's hollering
at you all the time.
XML, text reader, and the
XML reader style of things
is the reverse of that.
It is a pull style
where you are saying while
reader.read, and then each, this
is an interesting thing. Each
little piece, each little part,
each atom of an XML
document, including white space. If
you've told the XML reader
to care about white space
is a node. I was
parsing some OFX recently, it's
an open financial exchange format
and they, they have some
text nodes within the document
just floating around. And, and
I had to decide whether
I cared about those or
not. Whether the white space
was in fact significant. So
as you go next, next,
next, and you say pulling
through this reader, going read,
read, read. Each note is
a type, everything from the
comments like you'll actually see
comments go by when you're
using an XML text reader,
it is the absolutely most
efficient use of memory, but
it is read only. And
by itself, the XML texture
doesn't do any validation. It
won't validate your XML against
an XSD, which is why
folks then use the XML
validating reader. So this is
a reader that is a
pretty fast compared to the
Dom, but it, and it
does automatic validation, but it's
two to three times slower
than the XML text reader.
Okay. Things get real slow,
real fast. Now, comparatively the
Dom the XML document that
we're all familiar with is
another two or three times
slower than the XML text
trader. So we can, we're
looking at potentially six to
nine, maybe 10 times slower
when you start using a
Dom. Now we're talking about
memory issues. We're talking about
a dotnet to, Oh, here,
because there isn't really any
version of.net. Okay. Cause I
do remember you, or do
you recall you talking about
a, a version of an
XML component that was much
faster into, Oh, the XSLT
transform in dotnet two. Oh,
the XSL compiled transform is
who? Hey, faster. Okay. And
then what the rest of
these are typically about the
same speed. I believe that
almost everything in Dutton at
two O has received a
speed boost, but for the
most part, the relationship between
them is the same. The
Dom will almost always, always.
I mean, when I say
will almost just in case
someone writes and says, no,
in this one instance, it
is right, but the Xbox
is the fastest way full
stop to get some information.
Now, now you pay for
that though, because you're having
to go read or.read, and
you're poking around at a
very low level, right? You
don't get the luxury of
backing up with an XML,
text reader and Scott, I
just want to remind the
listeners at this time that
I'm Hanselman it's would not
be possible without the generous
support from our sponsors. And
one of those sponsors is
automated QA, and they make
a product called test complete,
which is just a complete
solution for testing in.net. And
it's great stuff. We love
it. And that's why they're
a sponsor. And so if
you please do us a
favor and check out their
site@automatedqa.com and also let them
know that you heard about
them on Hansel minutes, that
will help believe it or
not keep this show on
the air. I recently wrote
some code where I used
an XML text reader to,
or an XML reader. Rather,
you pass it a URL
to an RSS feed. And
then you use that reader
on the, on a dataset,
read XML, pass it the
reader. And you basically have
loaded RSS data into a
dataset where he, you know,
he can mess around with
it using the XML reader
as a parameter to other
things is a really nice
way of doing things. You
can pay passing data from
back, back and forth. You're
really not passing the data.
As you are passing the
cursor at a certain location,
right? Passing a Dom around
means passing this chunk of
memory of the handle to
this chunk of memory around
causing a reader at a
particular point is a really
nice to plug things in
and out of the, the
dominant framework. I like doing
what are called XML reader,
writer, pipelines, where I'll have
an interface like, you know,
I, my, my XML handler,
I have some interface that
takes a reader and a
writer. So I'll read out,
I'd like to say, I
read out of the left
hand and I'll write into
the, the right the right
hand. So if someone wants
to pass me a reader
and I'm going to do
some big transformation, and I
don't mean an XSLT transformation,
but maybe I've got a
gigabyte file. And I want
to turn all of my
attributes into elements, writing that
giant XML export file into
the Dom is unreasonable and
probably not possible depending on
how much memory you have,
but I can read that
up with the text reader
and I can make fundamental
changes to what's going on
in my document. I can
convert attributes to elements. I
can strip out comments. I
can clean things up. A
really common question is how
do I get automatic in
denting in my document? Someone's
going to give me an
XML document and it's got
no white space, but I
like my documents to be
tidy for maybe debugging purposes.
I can read that information
in with a reader and
then with an XML text
writer, which is the inverse
of the XML text reader,
I can then say XML
formatting is going to be
indented and then just read
through and write out and
I'll get free and denting.
And, and of course that's
still is nicely tight on
the memory. So very exactly
because you're not loading that
entire document up, but you
do have to curse it
through the whole thing. Well,
you do what you do
anyway, in that case. Yeah.
Yeah. Well, you're dealing with
this in a very, very
small chunks of information at
a time. Yeah. And of
course the XML document that
we're used to using is
using a reader underlying in
any way. This is the
neat thing about readers is
that these are really the
lowest level chunks of information.
They hide the angle brackets
from you. Now the XML
document is different from the
Dom, right? No, the XML
document is the Dawn. Dawn
is an implementation. The W3C
said, you know, there is
this thing called the document
object model that we want
to view of some XML
and the XML information set.
The XML document is dot
and its implementation of the
thumb. All right. Now the,
the, the thing that keeps
saying that we haven't talked
about is the XML information
set. The idea that if
you look at the angle
brackets in the text and
try to do like a
diff like doing a diff
with a tool like beyond
compare on an XML document,
doesn't really help you because
the XML document might be
different from a bite. You
know, bites bites provides might
be different, but what it's
trying to express the information
set within that document is
the same. So if I
had a document that had
like books and the XML
prefix, right, the shortcut before
the element might be like
a colon books, where a,
is the namespace for Amazon.
And I have another document
where they just chose B
as the namespace prefix, the
documents might express the exact
same XML information set. But
if I did a diff
it would come out as
radically different. Hmm. So when
you're doing XML dif you
need to ask yourself, am
I doing a low level?
Is this the same bytes?
Or is this the same
information? Another example would be
empty elements if I've got
a start Fu and then
an end Fu, or I've
got a single food that's,
pre-close like less than food
slash greater than yeah. Those
express the same thing and
empty element, except one is
short-circuited closed and one is
not, but they're expressing the
same kind of a thing.
The Dom tries to hide
that and give you a,
a pretty clear abstraction on
top of that. So you
get the same information set.
So once you have these
kinds of underlying pieces and
you can start to become
familiar with it, I suggest
that everyone really try to
deal with XML, text reader
and validating reader, and think
about what you can do.
You don't have to live
at that really low level
all the time. You can
run through to a point
within a, an XML reader,
find something you recognize, and
then maybe use the node,
use an XML node reader,
or use XML, sterilization, XML,
sterilization. One of my favorite
things. So what you have,
that's when you can Mark
up, okay. Class, like I
could say public classes book,
and then I can put
attributes on it. Dotnet attributes
that say, when I serialize
a book, when I save
a book as XML, I
want it to have these
elements in these, in these
places. So it's the automatic
kind of marshaling of data
from the angle bracket world
into the dotnet CLR type
world. And in m.net. One,
one, you can say, you
get to a point within
an XML reader and say,
read inner XML. And then
deserialize a document. And I've
got an example of reading
and saving XML fragments@shrinks.com slash
. Okay. And I'm in
dotnet two. Oh, you can
say like read subtree and
you can add a certain
point within a document, kind
of break off that reader
and take a chunk out
of it. The best of
both worlds, you don't have
to build an XML serialization
tree over the entire document,
but you don't have to
keep poking around at the
low level with the XML
reader. Cool. So you can
walk forward, grab a piece
and then keep, keep moving.
Great. But one of the
really exciting things about the
XML reader is that it
is an abstract base class,
the XML X street, and
the validating reader are examples,
you know, concrete instances of
that, but we can build
our own XML readers using
the same model dare Obasanjo
and Howard Howe wrote a
X path reader X path,
is that right? Kind of
tight language that you can
say, things like, give me
all the books that have
an author equal to this.
You can go like backslash
backslash books, open square bracket,
author, yada yada yada. And
you build a whole expression
sorta like SQL for XML.
Yeah. Query query language for,
for XML nodes. Yeah. But
typically you have to load
these things up into an
X path document, a faster,
more optimized XML document that's
optimized X path and for
X, And Have to then
query from there. So how
do I get the convenience
of an X path query
without all the memory usage
that I would get from
an X path document or
an XML document? And Darryl
was Sandro has got an
X path reader. So it
shrinks stir.com/c eight w dare.
And Howard's example is up
there. And I've actually linked
to another, a really smart
XML guy named Oliver Chenko
and all leg to Chenko.
His blog is at
dot com slash see eight
V and he's a, an
XML, a pundit. Another great
guy is Daniel catalino@shrinks.com slash
C eight U. These are
folks that I really keep
an eye on when it
comes to what's really interesting
and going on within the
XML space, the X path
reader that dare and Howard
have got, has a subset
of X path. It lets
you do those X paths.
That would make sense within
a forward only context. So
you can ask questions of
the X path reader and
actually build up an X
path collection. And you could
say, well, here are three
different queries that I want
you to watch mr. X
path reader. And I could
say rather than reader.read, I
would say reader.read on tell,
match, nice, and then ask
it, which match it found.
So I would get the
benefits of X path and
the speed and the convenience
of an XML text reader.
That's shiny to quote you.
It is shiny. Another really
shiny one. It was written
by a fantastically brilliant woman
named Helena coupe Cova. And
she actually wrote, I think,
called fast XML at shrink.com/c
a Z, an XML processor
and parser that is eight,
10, 20 times faster than
the ones that came from
Microsoft. She did it as
her, I think our master's
thesis or her PhD thesis.
And she has written an
XML bookmark reader. Remember how
I said that? XML readers
are forward only. Yeah, well,
she's got one at shrinks.com/c
eight Y that would let
you Mark a point within
an XML reader, continue to
move forward and play around
and then say return and
remove bookmark and actually hop
back to where you were
and then keep going. Awesome.
So it's kinda like TiVo
for XML readers. I don't
mean to overuse the TiVo
reference too much, but I
absolutely love this thing because
a lot of times when
you're doing an XML, a
pipeline like this XML reader
writer, pipeline, where you're passing
in readers and writers, you
can be concerned that your
implementation is going to misuse
the reader. Someone might read
one step too far or
not far enough, and kind
of mess things up with
the bookmark reader. Your outer
pipeline can return back to
a known point and continue
on. That's often someone who
wrote a malformed or well
poorly behaved chunk of that
pipeline can, can have themselves
saved by this bookmarking reader.
Wow. That's that's fabulous, man.
Well, some other cool things
that you can do with
XML readers are you can,
and this is this'll blow
your mind. I hope it
does. You can make XML
reader implementations over things that
aren't themselves XML. Huh? So
I'll pause for effect there.
And you can just drink
that. Yeah. So like a
comma separated value file or
in any file or something
like that and how absolutely
You've done your research@trickster.com slash
. They've got an XML
reader that reads CSV files.
So what it's doing is
remember that the XML reader,
when you say reader.read, it
sets a number of variables
and properties like node type
saying, what kind of note
am I on? Am I
on an element? Am I
on an attribute and my
own an end element. So
if you want it to
provide a view over a
CSV document, you could decide,
what does that mean to
you? Is that, is it
the comma on, you know,
that that is the XML
element? Or is that the,
is it the quote within
a CSV document, right? You
get to decide. And as
long as you return the
right answer so that the
consumer thinks it's XML, the
fact that your underlying not
reading XML doesn't matter because
the XML reader doesn't care
about angle brackets. It cares
about this information set. So
the XML CSV reader makes
CSV files look like XML.
That's what really is cool
about that is you could
then run an XSLT transform
on a CSV file. You
can actually write an XSLT
and, you know, an XML
style sheet transformation over the
top of an XML CSV
reader. So literally going directly
from comma separated values to
HTML or XML or something
else without having to do
intermediate steps. Cause typically you
would want to just read
that CSV file on yourself.
Maybe save it to a
dataset or put it in
a temporary file and then
transform from there. Have you
had, Do you use this
yourself at work? Yeah. Anytime
I can do a streaming
transformation over any kind of
thing, rather than loading it
up into memory. I love
doing that kind of stuff.
Yeah. The ability to make
an XML reader over the
top of something that isn't
XML, that's a really powerful
thing. The any reader is
pretty cool. He XML any
reader by Ralph westfall@shrinks.com slash
makes regular old INI
files like any files from
back in the day, look
like XML. But what's interesting
about that article is it
gives you the tools to
do this yourself with maybe
flat files you have. Now,
if you're a company that
has got flat files that
you wish were XML, or
I know that you're going
to move them to XML,
you could start now by
making that information set available.
And then when you eventually
do change them into XML,
your consumers wouldn't, wouldn't actually
care. Sweet. Another great one
is by Aaron scanner, actually@shrinks.com
slash C nine zero. Who's
got a file system navigator.
Basically he's taken the interface
of X path node iterator,
and he's made it over
the file system. So you
could run X path queries
over your hard drive. Wow.
Again, all of this is
about implementing interfaces or making
classes that derive from abstract
based classes that as long
as you follow the contract,
as long as you answer
the questions and produce the
right information, the fact you're
not reading underlying XML is
an implementation detail. Okay, Scott,
Very cool. What else are
we going to talk about
today? Well, so we've been
talking about IX. I'm extending
some of the inner interfaces
that Microsoft gives, you know,
like the XML reader, but
there are other extension points
within kind of the, the
XML ethos that that can
be exploited. The XML MVP
group, a bunch of MVPs
have gotten together and they've
added things to system dot
XML, the XML namespace that
they wish Microsoft would have
done. Maybe Microsoft didn't have
time, or it was an
esoteric thing that they didn't
feel was necessary and up
at XML, mvp.org, they've added
a couple of classes that
you can just download their
BSD license. There's one for
dotnet two. Oh, and there's
one for.net, a one.one. And
an interesting one is an
an XSL reader. So this
is a, a transformation we
know oftentimes we'll do XSLT
transformations where you'll take a
Dom and a apply a
style sheet to it, a
tree transformation language. And typically
that gets transformed into another
Dom. They've got an ex
an XSL reader that lets
you read the results of
that transformation as if it
were an XML reader that
what's significant about. This is
if you were stringing lots
of things together, making a
pipeline of readers into readers,
into writers, into readers, then
you could take something like
this and you could say,
I'm going to take the
CSV file and read it
with the CSV reader, do
an XSL transform with some
XSLT and the results will
go straight into an XSL
reader. And this is important
because in dotnet to, Oh,
the XSL compiled transform. Remember
how we said that they
have a new class in.net
that has compiled transforms, right?
Well, because of the way
it's doing that compilation, they've
thrown away the ability to
transform into an excess an
XML reader. So this team
has basically put that functionality
back and they're making it
available. And those other great
features that they've added to
XML that you might want
to take a look at
an XML, mvp.org. Another thing
that they've added is what's
called E XSLT. And you
can learn about that@exslt.org. These
are kind of formalized extensions
to XSLT when you're writing
this XSLT transformation language and
you, you hit a wall.
Microsoft lets you throw script
in there. You know, and
a lot of people have
with ms. XML and back
in the calm days and
the VB days, you'd you'd
throw JavaScript or VB script
inside of your XSLT transformation.
And when you did the
transform, they fire up the
scripting language and you'd have
a little opportunities to poke
around in there, but they've
actually formalized this, this XSLT
series of libraries E xslt.org,
and they've built support for
these libraries into a.net and
the MVP XML library. What's
cool about that is that
before, when you wrote Java
script and VB script, you
were pretty much stuck with
whatever XSLT transformer you were
using. You're pretty much stuck
on Microsoft, but now E
XSLT, these libraries are described
in a way that is
more about the interface and
less about the implementation. So
they've got a.net implementation of
XSLT, which means I could
actually run it on different
implementations of an XSL transformer.
I could take an XSLT
that maybe a Linux user
was using against a Java
XML library and transforming on
a Linux machine. But he
used these libraries, these methods
that are available via XSLT
and they'd still work on.net.
So it's almost like saying
cross-platform XSLT XSLT at its
purest sense is something that
if you just write pure
XSLT, for the most part,
if they follow the spec,
you can use any number
of transforming engines. But as
soon as you start extending
it and putting in script
of your own, you're pretty
much stuck. And it had
have basically written Microsoft specific
XSLT. This E XSLT has
become enough of a standard
now that there are a
lot of choices for people
who are writing these style
sheets, smoking, it is pretty
sweet. Yeah. You've been writing
a lot about XML this
week. What are some posts
that you want to point
us to? I did some
XSLT stuff a while back
on@ashrinkstir.com slash B F zero.
Talking about how, when you
do XSLT, you've really got
to just test, test, test,
test, test. And we actually
got to interact with some
of the guys at the
XML perf team at Microsoft.
And they said that even
though you can write XSLT
and most often everything that
you write is portable. If
you're really serious about performance,
you need to tweak it
for the quirks of the
particular partial that you're using
some performance testing on the
comm based MSX SL for
MSML six, we use done
at one Oh two Oh
and learn some techniques that
can make XML transformations more,
more powerful and more efficient.
Okay. Another one is some
fragment writing. A lot of
times people want to write
out an XML document from
an object, but they don't
want all the namespaces. Maybe
they want some backward compatibility.
They don't really want an
XML document. They want an
XML fragment. We've got an
XML fragment writer up at
shrinks.com/ . And then as
I mentioned before, I'm reading
those fragments back in with
the serializer@shrinks.com slash . Okay.
What are some XML sites
that you visit regularly? Well,
so blogs that I read
of folks that are into
XML deeply, like I'd mentioned
Olay kotanko@shrinks.com slash C eight
V is amazing. I just
love reading his stuff. Daniel
catalino@shrinker.com slash C eight U
has got a whole series
on XML performance. I love
reading stuff by Daryl Obasanjo.
I love reading stuff by
Aaron Skynard anything up on
MSD, antibiotics, AML. They really
have some brilliant stuff. Anytime
you can read an article
by Halena cook Cova whose
blog I have been unable
to find, but she is
absolutely brilliant. And reading the
code inside of the XML,
bookmark reader is pretty amazing
grant, actually, a link that
I forgot to, to put
up, but I think you
could probably find it up
on my blog is a
thing called an SGML reader.
You know how HTML is
not well formed. There's no
rule that says that you
absolutely have to have a
closing tag, right? When you
open a tag like the
BR tags, real common tag,
that people don't close you
can't open up an regular
old HTML document as an
XML file as an XML
document, because if it's not
well formed and it's not
XML well, Chris love it
wrote a thing called the
SGML reader. And you can
Google for this. It'll be
the first hit. The SGML
reader is an XML reader,
right? So he's derived from
XML reader. And what he
does is he actually auto
closes tags. So if he
sees that there's a tag
that's been opened and then
he gets farther along into
the document and notices that
if I read the next
element, that this is going
to be an invalid document,
he will go back and
automatically close elements that need
to be closed. So that
a poorly formed document, like
whether it be Oh, effects
in my case, the financial
exchange format, or whether it's
HTML, you'll get valid XML.
So if you have some
HTML you want to clean
up or you need to
parse some XML, that's not
necessarily well-formed the SGML reader
is a really great way
to do that. This is
a lot of information in
a really short period of
time. And XML is one
of those things that, you
know, you could get really
deeply into. And there are
people who spend their entire
career focused on XML. But
the, the thing that, that
I want to get across
to folks is that a,
if you don't want to
see angle brackets, you don't
have to, there are so
many things that allow you
to look at XML without
ever seeing an angle bracket.
It's really about the information
set, not the brackets. And
that said, you know, it's
always a good idea to
have at least one or
two really hot shot XML
guys on your, on your
staff, in your development team.
Yeah. And it's probably good
if it was you. One
of the things that my
boss says is that Every
problem in computer science can
be solved by one additional
layer of abstraction. Yeah. That's
dealing with XML having these
nice clean interfaces and then
having just a little layer
of abstraction around them gives
you a lot of flexibility,
whether you're parsing RSS or
pulling information out of a
CSV file, those layers of
distraction and a nice clean
library, the Dunnet base Class
library and system dot XML
and make life a lot
easier. And that's a show
everything else wanted to know
about XML. Thank you, Scott.
Thank you, Carl. Thank you
listeners. And we'll see you
next week on Hansel minutes.